📖 Move clusterctl to book (#1397)
kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api: docs/book/src/tooling/clusterctl.md

> # Using `clusterctl` to create a cluster from scratch

Reviewer: Above this line, we should add the following deprecation notice:

```html
<aside class="note warning">

<h1>Deprecation Notice</h1>

This utility has been deprecated in v1alpha2 and it'll be removed in a future version in favor. 

</aside>
```

Author: done.

* `machines.yaml` defines an object of the resource type `Machine`. Generally creates the machine
that becomes the control-plane.
* `addons.yaml` contains the addons for the provider.

Many providers implementations come with helpful scripts to generate these YAMLS. Provider implementation
can be found [here](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/reference/providers).  

`clusterctl` also comes with additional features. For example, `clusterctl` can also take in an optional
`bootstrap-only-components.yaml` to provide resources to the bootstrap cluster without also providing them
to the target cluster post-pivot.

For more details about all the supported options run:

```
clusterctl create cluster --help
```

After generating the YAML files run the following command:

```
clusterctl create cluster --bootstrap-type <BOOTSTRAP CLUSTER TYPE> -c cluster.yaml -m machines.yaml -p provider-components.yaml --addon-components addons.yaml
```

Example usage:

```
# VMware vSphere
clusterctl create cluster --provider vsphere --bootstrap-type kind -c cluster.yaml -m machines.yaml -p provider-components.yaml --addon-components addons.yaml

# Amazon AWS

> clusterctl create cluster --provider aws --bootstrap-type kind -c cluster.yaml -m machines.yaml -p provider-components.yaml --addon-components addons.yaml

Reviewer: We can remove both of the above `--provider` flags, they have been deprecated in v1alpha2

Reviewer: Follow-up, we can also remove the two examples and just keep a generic one

Author: gotcha. done.

of all the resources that are managed by Cluster API. Some examples of these resources
are: `Cluster`, `Machine`, `MachineSet`, etc. For more details about Cluster API resources
click [here](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/architecture/controllers).
* `cluster.yaml` defines an object of the resource type `Cluster`.
* `machines.yaml` defines an object of the resource type `Machine`. Generally creates the machine
that becomes the control-plane.
* `addons.yaml` contains the addons for the provider.

Many providers implementations come with helpful scripts to generate these YAMLS. Provider implementation
can be found [here](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/reference/providers).  

`clusterctl` also comes with additional features. For example, `clusterctl` can also take in an optional
`bootstrap-only-components.yaml` to provide resources to the bootstrap cluster without also providing them
to the target cluster post-pivot.

For more details about all the supported options run:

```
clusterctl create cluster --help
```

After generating the YAML files run the following command:

```

> clusterctl create cluster --provider <PROVIDER> --bootstrap-type <BOOTSTRAP CLUSTER TYPE> -c cluster.yaml -m machines.yaml -p provider-components.yaml --addon-components addons.yaml

Reviewer 2: I think the `--provider` field no longer exists with v1alpha2, @vincepri can you confirm?

Reviewer: That's correct, good catch!

Author: done.

```

Example usage:

```
# VMware vSphere
clusterctl create cluster --provider vsphere --bootstrap-type kind -c cluster.yaml -m machines.yaml -p provider-components.yaml --addon-components addons.yaml

# Amazon AWS
clusterctl create cluster --provider aws --bootstrap-type kind -c cluster.yaml -m machines.yaml -p provider-components.yaml --addon-components addons.yaml
```

**What happens when we run the command?**  
After running the command first it creates a local cluster. If `kind` was passed as the `--bootstrap-type`
it creates a local [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) cluster. This cluster is generally referred to as the *bootstrap cluster*.  
On this kind Kubernetes cluster the `provider-components.yaml` file is applied. This step loads the CRDs into

> the cluster. It also creates two [StatefulSet](https://Kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/)

Reviewer 2: s/StatefulSet/Deployment/ here, with v1alpha2 and using the updated kubebuilder v2 scaffolding the old StatefulSets should now be Deployments.

Author: done

> pods that run the cluster api controller and the provider specific controller. These pods register the custom

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pods that run the cluster api controller manager and the provider specific controller manager. These pods register the custom
```

Author: done

> controllers that manage the newly defined resources (`Cluster`, `Machine`, `MachineSet`, etc.).  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
controllers that manage the newly defined resources (`Cluster`, `Machine`, `MachineSet`, `MachineDeployment`, as well as provider-specific resources).  
```

Author: done

Next, `clusterctl` applies the `cluster.yaml` and `machines.yaml` to the local kind Kubernetes cluster. This
step creates a Kubernetes cluster with only a control-plane (as defined in `machines.yaml`) on the specified
provider. This newly created cluster is generally referred to as the *management cluster* or *pivot cluster*
or *initial target cluster*. The management cluster is responsible for creating and maintaining the workload cluster.  
  
Lastly, `clusterctl` moves all the CRDs and the custom controllers from the bootstrap cluster to the
management cluster and deletes the locally created bootstrap cluster. This step is referred to as the *pivot*.

> ### Creating a workload cluster using the management cluster

Reviewer 2: We should likely remove this section, I'm not sure that it works as expected.

Author: done
